Added documentation for Active-Active (#3753)
redis/redis-py: docs/active_active.rst

Active-Active
=============

MultiDBClient explanation
--------------------------

Starting from redis-py 6.5.0 we introduce a new type of client to communicate
with databases in Active-Active setup. `MultiDBClient` is a wrapper around multiple

> Redis or Redis Cluster clients, each of them has 1:1 relation to specific

Author: Done

database. `MultiDBClient` in most of the cases provides the same API as any other

> client for the best user experience.

Author: Done

The core feature of `MultiDBClient` is automaticaly triggered failover depends on the
database healthiness. The pre-condition is that each database that is configured
to be used by MultiDBClient are eventually consistent, so client could choose

> any database in any point of time for communication. `MultiDBClient` always communicates

Author: Done

> with single database, so there's 1 active and N passive databases that acting as a

Author: Done

> stand-by replica. By default, active database is choosed based on the weights that

Author: Done

> has to be assigned for each database.

Author: Done

We have two mechanisms to verify database healthiness: `Healthcheck` and
`Failure Detector`.

To be able to use `MultiDBClient` you need to install a `pybreaker` package:

.. code:: python

    pip install pybreaker>=1.4.0

The very basic configuration you need to setup a `MultiDBClient`:

.. code:: python

    // Expected active database (highest weight)
    database1_config = DatabaseConfig(
        weight=1.0,
        from_url="redis://host1:port1",
        client_kwargs={
            'username': "username",
            'password': "password",
        }
    )

    // Passive database (stand-by replica)
    database2_config = DatabaseConfig(
        weight=0.9,
        from_url="redis://host2:port2",
        client_kwargs={
            'username': "username",
            'password': "password",
        }
    )

    config = MultiDbConfig(
        databases_config=[database1_config, database2_config],
    )

    client = MultiDBClient(config)

> Healthcheck
> -----------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Health Monitoring
-----------

The `MultiDBClient` uses two complementary mechanisms to ensure database availability:

Health Checks (Proactive Monitoring)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
These checks run continuously in the background at configured intervals to proactively detect database issues. They run in the background with a given interval and configuration defined in the `MultiDBConfig` class.

**Default ECHO Health Check**
```

Author: Done

> By default, we're using healthcheck based on `ECHO` command to verify that database is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, MultiDBClient sends ECHO commands to verify each database is
```

reachable and ready to serve requests (`PING` guarantees first, but not the second).

> Additionaly, you can add your own healthcheck implementation and extend a list of
> healthecks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Custom Health Checks**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add custom health checks for specific requirements:

TODO: Add an example of a custom healthcheck here
```

> All healthchecks are running in the background with given interval and configuration
> defined in `MultiDBConfig` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Moved higher

Author: Done

> defined in `MultiDBConfig` class.

Author: Done

> Lag-Aware Healthcheck
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Lag-Aware Healthcheck (Redis Enterprise Only)**
```

Author: Done

This is a special type of healthcheck available for Redis Software and Redis Cloud

> that utilizes REST API endpoint to obtain an information about synchronisation lag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that utilizes a REST API endpoint to obtain information about the synchronisation lag
```

Author: Done

> between given database and all other databases in Active-Active setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
between a given database and all other databases in an Active-Active setup.
```

> To be able to use this type of healthcheck, first you need to adjust your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this healthcheck, first you need to adjust your
```

Author: Done

`DatabaseConfig` to expose `health_check_url` used by your deployment.
By default, your Cluster FQDN should be used as URL, unless you have
some kind of reverse proxy behind an actual REST API endpoint.

.. code:: python

    database1_config = DatabaseConfig(
        weight=1.0,
        from_url="redis://host1:port1",
        health_check_url="https://c1.deployment-name-000000.cto.redislabs.com"
        client_kwargs={
            'username': "username",
            'password': "password",
        }
    )

> Since, Lag-Aware Healthcheck only available for Redis Software and Redis Cloud

Author: Done

to provide it manually during client configuration or in runtime.

.. code:: python

    // Configuration option
    config = MultiDbConfig(
        databases_config=[database1_config, database2_config],
        health_checks=[
          LagAwareHealthCheck(auth_basic=('username','password'), verify_tls=False)
      ]
    )

    client = MultiDBClient(config)

.. code:: python

    // In runtime
    client = MultiDBClient(config)
    client.add_health_check(
        LagAwareHealthCheck(auth_basic=('username','password'), verify_tls=False)
    )

As mentioned we utilise REST API endpoint for Lag-Aware healthchecks, so it accepts
different type of HTTP-related configuration: authentication credentials, request
timeout, TLS related configuration, etc. (check `LagAwareHealthCheck` class).

You can also specify `lag_aware_tolerance` parameter to specify the tolerance in MS
of lag between databases that your application could tolerate.

.. code:: python

    LagAwareHealthCheck(
        rest_api_port=9443,
        auth_basic=('username','password'),
        lag_aware_tolerance=150,
        verify_tls=True,
        ca_file="path/to/file"
    )

> Failure Detector
> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failure Detection (Reactive Monitoring)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Author: Done

Unlike healthcheck, `Failure Detector` verifies database healthiness based on organic
trafic, so the default one reacts to any command failures within a sliding window of

> seconds and mark database as unhealthy if threshold has been exceeded. You can extend

Reviewer 2: `pre-configured seconds` or `a few seconds` or something else that would define better how many seconds?

Author: Done

> Unlike healthcheck, `Failure Detector` verifies database healthiness based on organic
> trafic, so the default one reacts to any command failures within a sliding window of
> seconds and mark database as unhealthy if threshold has been exceeded. You can extend
> a list of failure detectors providing your own implementation, configuration defined
> in `MultiDBConfig` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The failure detector watches actual command failures and marks databases as unhealthy when error rates exceed thresholds within a sliding time window of a few seconds. This catches issues that proactive health checks might miss during real traffic.
You can extend the list of failure detectors by providing your own implementation, configuration defined in the `MultiDBConfig` class.
```

Author: Done

Databases configuration
-----------------------

> You have to provide a configuration for each database in setup separately, using
> `DatabaseConfig` class per database. As mentioned, there's an undelying instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each database needs a `DatabaseConfig` that specifies how to connect.
```

Author: Done

> of `Redis` or `RedisCluster` client for each database, so you can pass all the
> arguments related to them via `client_kwargs` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Method 1: Using client_kwargs (most flexible)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There's an underlying instance of `Redis` or `RedisCluster` client for each database, so you can pass all the
arguments related to them via `client_kwargs` argument:
```

.. code:: python

    database_config = DatabaseConfig(
        weight=1.0,
        client_kwargs={
            'host': 'localhost',
            'port': 6379,
            'username': "username",
            'password': "password",
        }
    )

> It also supports `from_url` or `from_pool` capabilites to setup a client using
> Redis URL or custom `ConnectionPool` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Method 2: Using Redis URL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Author: Done

> .. code:: python
> 
>     database_config1 = DatabaseConfig(
>         weight=1.0,
>         from_url="redis://host1:port1",
>         client_kwargs={
>             'username': "username",
>             'password': "password",
>         }
>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python

    database_config1 = DatabaseConfig(
        weight=1.0,
        from_url="redis://host1:port1",
        client_kwargs={
            'username': "username",
            'password': "password",
        }
    )
```    
```

Author: Done

>     database_config2 = DatabaseConfig(
>         weight=0.9,
>         from_pool=connection_pool,
>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Method 3: Using Custom Connection Pool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

```python
  database_config2 = DatabaseConfig(
      weight=0.9,
      from_pool=connection_pool,
  )
```  
```

> The only exception from `client_kwargs` is the retry configuration. We do not allow
> to pass underlying `Retry` object to avoid nesting retries. All the retries are
> controlled by top-level `Retry` object that you can setup via `command_retry`
> argument (check `MultiDBConfig`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important**: Don't pass `Retry` objects in `client_kwargs`. `MultiDBClient` handles all retries at the top level through the `command_retry` configuration.
```

will be reversed.

Like the other clients, there's two main methods to consume messages:
in the main thread and in the separate thread

.. code:: python

    client = MultiDBClient(config)
    p = client.pubsub()

    // In the main thread
    while True:
        message = p.get_message()
            if message:
                // do something with the message
        time.sleep(0.001)

.. code:: python

    // In separate thread
    client = MultiDBClient(config)
    p = client.pubsub()
    messages_count = 0
    data = json.dumps({'message': 'test'})

    def handler(message):
        nonlocal messages_count
        messages_count += 1

    // Assign a handler and run in a separate thread.
    p.subscribe(**{'test-channel': handler})
    pubsub_thread = pubsub.run_in_thread(sleep_time=0.1, daemon=True)

    for _ in range(10):
        client.publish('test-channel', data)
        sleep(0.1)

OSS Cluster API support
-----------------------

As mentioned `MultiDBClient` also supports integration with OSS Cluster API
databases. If you're instantiating client using Redis URL, the only change
you need comparing to standalone client is the `client_class` argument.

> DNS server will resolve given URL and will point you to one of the node that

Reviewer 2: one of the nodes

Author: Done
